docs/installation.rst, before:

Install TAPA
============

Option 1: One-Click Install from Binary
------------------------------------------

TAPA is developed and tested in Ubuntu.
If you use Ubuntu as well (highly recommended),
you can easily install TAPA from pre-built packages:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl -L https://git.io/JnERa | bash

.. note::

  The installation script will prompt for ``sudo`` authentication.
  This is required to install packages using ``apt-get``.
  If you are concerned, feel free to review the
  `installation script <https://git.io/JnERa>`_.
  The pre-built packages are hosted on
  `GitHub <https://github.com/Blaok/tapa/tree/gh-pages>`_
  and `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/tapa/>`_.

.. note::

  TAPA requires Vitis HLS with version >= 2020.2. Previous HLS versions are not supported.

.. tip::

  Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04 are both supported.
  Ubuntu 16.04 has reached end-of-life and is no longer supported.

.. tip::

  TAPA is in active development.
  New versions are tagged and built every couple of weeks.
  You can run the installation script again to obtain the latest pre-built
  version when a new version is available.

Option 2: Install from Source
-----------------------------

If you would like to contribute code to TAPA,
or insist on using other Linux distributions,
you'll need to build TAPA from source.

Build Prerequisites
+++++++++++++++++++

* Add ``${HOME}/.local/bin`` to your ``PATH``:

  * ``PATH="${HOME}/.local/bin:${PATH}"``

* CMake 3.13+

  * ``python3 -m pip install cmake``

* A C++ 11 compiler

  * ``sudo apt install build-essential``
* Google glog library

  * ``sudo apt install libgoogle-glog-dev``

* Boost coroutine library

  * ``sudo apt install libboost-coroutine-dev``

* `FPGA Runtime <https://github.com/Blaok/fpga-runtime>`_

  * ``curl -L https://git.io/JuAxz | bash``


Additional Build Prerequisites for Testing
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

* Google gflags library

  * ``sudo apt install libgflags-dev``

Runtime Dependency
++++++++++++++++++

* Python 3.6+
* Icarus Verilog

  * ``sudo apt install iverilog``

* Clang 8 and its headers

  *  ``sudo apt install clang-8 libclang-8-dev``

* Vitis 2020.2, 2021.1, or 2021.2
* `Xilinx Runtime <https://github.com/Xilinx/XRT>`_

Build and Installation
++++++++++++++++++++++

1. Download source and install the Python part.

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone https://github.com/UCLA-VAST/tapa
  python3 -m pip install tapa/backend/python

.. note::
  If you encounter
  ``FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'README.md'``,
  please consider upgrading ``pip``:

  .. code-block:: bash

    python3 -m pip install pip --upgrade


2. Create a build directory.

.. code-block:: bash

  cd tapa
  mkdir build
  cd build

3. Build TAPA and run tests.
Note: the command below will allow up to 8 parallel jobs for ``make``.
This number should be adjusted according to your available cores and memory.

.. code-block:: bash

  cmake ..
  make -j8
  make -j8 test

.. tip::

  If you have `Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_ installed, you should do the
  following instead:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cmake .. -GNinja
    ninja
    ninja test

4. Install TAPA.

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/backend/tapacc /usr/local/bin/
  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/../src/tapa{,.h} /usr/local/include/
  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/libtapa.{a,so} /usr/local/lib/

Additional Build Prerequisites for Documentation
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

* Doxygen

  * ``sudo apt install doxygen``

* Sphinx and Breathe

  * ``python3 -m pip install -r docs/requirements.txt``

Install Gurobi (Recommended)
============================

Installing Gurobi is optional but highly recommended.
In the floorplanning step,
TAPA/AutoBridge relies on `Python MIP <https://www.python-mip.com/>`_ to solve
Integer Linear Programming (ILP) problems.
By default, Python MIP uses an open-source solver.
The commercial Gurobi solver is much faster than the open-source solver,
and it is free for academia.

* Register and download the Gurobi Optimizer at
  https://www.gurobi.com/downloads/gurobi-optimizer-eula/

* Unzip the package to your desired directory

* Obtain an academic license at
  https://www.gurobi.com/downloads/end-user-license-agreement-academic/

* Set environment variables ``GUROBI_HOME`` and ``GRB_LICENSE_FILE``

  .. code-block:: bash

    export GUROBI_HOME=[WHERE-YOU-INSTALL]
    export GRB_LICENSE_FILE=[ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-LICENSE-FILE]
    export PATH="${PATH}:${GUROBI_HOME}/bin"
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}:${GUROBI_HOME}/lib"

Verify Installation
===================

Check if ``tapac`` is available after installation:

.. code-block:: bash

  tapac --help

If ``tapac`` is not found,
you may need to add ``${HOME}/.local/bin`` to your ``PATH``:

.. code-block:: bash

  PATH="${HOME}/.local/bin:${PATH}"


Update TAPA
===============

TAPA is in active development and we are adding more features quickly. To update TAPA to the latest release:

- If you use one-click installation before, then simply run the one-click script again.

- If you install TAPA from source, you need to go through the steps again.

Commit message:

docs: add note about library path

docs/installation.rst, after:

Install TAPA
============

Option 1: One-Click Install from Binary
------------------------------------------

TAPA is developed and tested in Ubuntu.
If you use Ubuntu as well (highly recommended),
you can easily install TAPA from pre-built packages:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl -L https://git.io/JnERa | bash

.. note::

  The installation script will prompt for ``sudo`` authentication.
  This is required to install packages using ``apt-get``.
  If you are concerned, feel free to review the
  `installation script <https://git.io/JnERa>`_.
  The pre-built packages are hosted on
  `GitHub <https://github.com/Blaok/tapa/tree/gh-pages>`_
  and `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/tapa/>`_.

.. note::

  TAPA requires Vitis HLS with version >= 2020.2. Previous HLS versions are not supported.

.. tip::

  Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04 are both supported.
  Ubuntu 16.04 has reached end-of-life and is no longer supported.

.. tip::

  TAPA is in active development.
  New versions are tagged and built every couple of weeks.
  You can run the installation script again to obtain the latest pre-built
  version when a new version is available.

Option 2: Install from Source
-----------------------------

If you would like to contribute code to TAPA,
or insist on using other Linux distributions,
you'll need to build TAPA from source.

Build Prerequisites
+++++++++++++++++++

* Add ``${HOME}/.local/bin`` to your ``PATH``:

  * ``PATH="${HOME}/.local/bin:${PATH}"``

* CMake 3.13+

  * ``python3 -m pip install cmake``

* A C++ 11 compiler

  * ``sudo apt install build-essential``
* Google glog library

  * ``sudo apt install libgoogle-glog-dev``

* Boost coroutine library

  * ``sudo apt install libboost-coroutine-dev``

* `FPGA Runtime <https://github.com/Blaok/fpga-runtime>`_

  * ``curl -L https://git.io/JuAxz | bash``


Additional Build Prerequisites for Testing
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

* Google gflags library

  * ``sudo apt install libgflags-dev``

Runtime Dependency
++++++++++++++++++

* Python 3.6+
* Icarus Verilog

  * ``sudo apt install iverilog``

* Clang 8 and its headers

  *  ``sudo apt install clang-8 libclang-8-dev``

* Vitis 2020.2, 2021.1, or 2021.2
* `Xilinx Runtime <https://github.com/Xilinx/XRT>`_

Build and Installation
++++++++++++++++++++++

1. Download source and install the Python part.

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone https://github.com/UCLA-VAST/tapa
  python3 -m pip install tapa/backend/python

.. note::
  If you encounter
  ``FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'README.md'``,
  please consider upgrading ``pip``:

  .. code-block:: bash

    python3 -m pip install pip --upgrade


2. Create a build directory.

.. code-block:: bash

  cd tapa
  mkdir build
  cd build

3. Build TAPA and run tests.
Note: the command below will allow up to 8 parallel jobs for ``make``.
This number should be adjusted according to your available cores and memory.

.. code-block:: bash

  cmake ..
  make -j8
  make -j8 test

.. tip::

  If you have `Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_ installed, you should do the
  following instead:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cmake .. -GNinja
    ninja
    ninja test

4. Install TAPA.

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/backend/tapacc /usr/local/bin/
  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/../src/tapa{,.h} /usr/local/include/
  sudo ln -sf "${PWD}"/libtapa.{a,so} /usr/local/lib/

.. note::

  The compiler may not search ``/usr/local/lib`` for linking by default.
  Consider adding ``/usr/local/lib`` to the ``LIBRARY_PATH`` environment
  variable,
  or adding ``-L/usr/local/lib`` to the compiler arguments for linking.

Additional Build Prerequisites for Documentation
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

* Doxygen

  * ``sudo apt install doxygen``

* Sphinx and Breathe

  * ``python3 -m pip install -r docs/requirements.txt``

Install Gurobi (Recommended)
============================

Installing Gurobi is optional but highly recommended.
In the floorplanning step,
TAPA/AutoBridge relies on `Python MIP <https://www.python-mip.com/>`_ to solve
Integer Linear Programming (ILP) problems.
By default, Python MIP uses an open-source solver.
The commercial Gurobi solver is much faster than the open-source solver,
and it is free for academia.

* Register and download the Gurobi Optimizer at
  https://www.gurobi.com/downloads/gurobi-optimizer-eula/

* Unzip the package to your desired directory

* Obtain an academic license at
  https://www.gurobi.com/downloads/end-user-license-agreement-academic/

* Set environment variables ``GUROBI_HOME`` and ``GRB_LICENSE_FILE``

  .. code-block:: bash

    export GUROBI_HOME=[WHERE-YOU-INSTALL]
    export GRB_LICENSE_FILE=[ADDRESS-OF-YOUR-LICENSE-FILE]
    export PATH="${PATH}:${GUROBI_HOME}/bin"
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}:${GUROBI_HOME}/lib"

Verify Installation
===================

Check if ``tapac`` is available after installation:

.. code-block:: bash

  tapac --help

If ``tapac`` is not found,
you may need to add ``${HOME}/.local/bin`` to your ``PATH``:

.. code-block:: bash

  PATH="${HOME}/.local/bin:${PATH}"


Update TAPA
===============

TAPA is in active development and we are adding more features quickly. To update TAPA to the latest release:

- If you use one-click installation before, then simply run the one-click script again.

- If you install TAPA from source, you need to go through the steps again.
